ABSRACT:

Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning have transformed the retail industry's business model, and customer expectations have shifted dramatically, with customers expecting to get everything they want at their fingertips. In the United States, online sales have increased by 300 percent since 2001, while physical shop sales have decreased by 50 percent. Retailers are attempting to improve user experience by recommending products and services that are more appropriate for customers, resulting in increased revenue. Recommendations on the website are one of the ways used to improve the customer experience by giving suggestions. The problem we are addressing in this study is to identify various evaluation measures of recommendation systems that influence customer satisfaction. We investigated this using an Amazon product dataset and generated recommendations using both traditional and deep learning algorithms. The implemented recommendation algorithms were evaluated using various evaluation metrics such as accuracy, diversity, novelty, and coverage. Along with these measures, the Expectancy Disconfirmation Theory (EDT) was used to determine customer satisfaction for each user. The result of this study showed that accuracy positively influences customer satisfaction and other measures like diversity, novelty and coverage did not have a significant impact on customer satisfaction. A more accurate recommendation system boosts customer satisfaction. In terms of customer satisfaction, the study also shows that deep learning-based recommendation systems outperform traditional algorithms. Many e-commerce companies currently use traditional algorithms to recommend products or services to customers. The study's findings will help the e-commerce industries rethink their business strategies. Implementing an accurate deep learning-based recommendation system could increase customer satisfaction, resulting in increased sales and profit. The study's findings could be used as a starting point for e-commerce companies looking to cut costs associated with developing recommender systems while also providing personalized services that satisfy customers. Further research is needed to perform on diverse datasets, as this study does not allow for generalization, and to see how different deep learning-based algorithms, such as Graph Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks affect customer satisfaction. 
